Around the world, Jehovah's Witnesses show unfailing love.
In the next hour, we'll hear reports that highlight real-life examples of such love.
We'll consider how economic hardship, natural disasters, and political upheaval
give us the opportunity to show our unfailing love toward our brothers.
Later in the program, we'll see the immense support that's given to special preaching campaigns,
and to the construction of places of worship.
All these examples will prove that Jehovah's Organization lives up to the words of 1st Peter to 17,
have love for the whole association of brothers.
Additionally, many of the reports will highlight not only brotherly love, but also neighborly love.
We do this by going to extraordinary lengths to preach despite many challenges.
To get us started, let's see some examples of unfailing love in Africa.
Specifically, we'll be talking about how our brothers thrive spiritually despite challenging economic circumstances.
We now have the privilege of getting reports from brother Paul Rohadjani Rina,
who serves on the Madagascar Branch Committee, from brother Buston Nurenda,
who serves on the Malaway Branch Committee, and from brother Robert Elango,
who serves on the Congo Kinshasa Branch Committee.
First, brother Rohadjani Rina, how have our brothers in Madagascar experienced brotherly love?
Madagascar is one of the poorest countries in the world,
and 80% of the population lives on less than $2 per day.
So many cannot afford basic things such as healthcare.
Our branch here in Madagascar keeps the governing body informed of how our brothers and sisters are doing.
This has led to help from other branches.
For example, a good team of witness nurses and doctors came from France on several occasions
to provide medical care for our brothers, the team travelled from village to village on bad runs,
and in the extreme heat.
Our brothers benefited greatly from the visits.
To illustrate, some of our dear older ones have bad hearing and cannot afford to go to a larger city for help.
But our brothers with a medical team travelled to them and gave them proper care without charge.
But for love they didn't stop there.
These visiting volunteers also helped educate our local brothers on practical matters of hygiene and diet.
Since some cannot afford to fast, the medical team taught them how to brag their teeth with salt.
They also shared valuable insight on how to raise chickens, how to grow a jetabors on a small plot of land,
and even the importance of eating of a variety of simple, nutritious foods.
Seeing these many expressions of love reassures our malagasy brothers and sisters,
but Jehovah is a god of sight, as stated at Genesis chapter 16, verse 13.
Jehovah sees what his people are going through in his system of things,
and he uses his world-wide organization to support them.
Thank you brother Rahad Janirina for sharing those beautiful examples of brotherly love.
Next, let's travel to Malawi to speak for a moment with brother Nurenda.
Brother Nurenda, how has the organization shown love to our brothers in Malawi?
Before 1983, the work was under ban in Malawi.
Meetings, assemblies, and conventions were held in small groups at night.
After the ban was lifted, we were able to arrange large day time gatherings.
The branch funded the construction of simple structures to provide our brothers and sisters with shade from the hot sun
while attending these organic events.
At the time, it was very easy and inexpensive to find local materials needed for these structures.
But over the last few years, local suppliers have been doing good,
and the prices have gone up considerably.
To solve this problem, the Malawi branch contacted the regional design construction department
at the South Africa branch.
With approval from the governing body, these brothers worked together to design a mobile shared structure
that can be transported from one's eocratic event to another whenever it is needed.
And last year, the brothers used the prototype of this structure at several locations in Malawi.
We received many appreciative comments as a result.
One sector of the year wrote,
brothers and sisters appreciated the shared covering
because they could concentrate during the program.
And it was much cooler, more conducive to learning the whole of the real answer to our prayer.
A popular word, more brothers and sisters were in their six during the program and paid better attention.
We recently received approval from the governing body to expand the use of these structures.
And we believe it will be a great blessing to our Malawi and brothers and sisters.
Thank you, brother Nurenda.
We're happy to see how Jehovah not only provides spiritual food,
but also makes it easier for us to consume it.
We now focus on our brothers in the democratic republic of the Congo.
Brother Alango, how do economic circumstances pose a challenge for our brothers there?
Brother Kurzan, the economic challenges are quite noticeable in connection with conventions and assemblies.
The majority of our brothers have to travel on food with bicycles, motorcycles, even trucks to reach the convention site.
They simply do not have enough money to arrange for other men of struggle.
Once at the convention site, the visiting brothers stay in the homes with local brothers.
In some cases, the branch has provided tents so that brothers who may already have people staying in the house can also have guests stay in the yard.
But despite these logistical challenges, close to 800,000 brothers and sisters attended a regional convention in our branch territory.
The brothers love convention very much and they always look forward to the next one.
But hospitality is needed also when it's not convention season.
Sometimes, political instability requires our brothers to relocate to safe safe.
And when that happens, examples such as these sisters show the evidence of the unfailing love in our brotherhood.
My husband has passed away and I take care of three children and nine grandchildren.
I have a full house.
It's challenging to provide even for our basic needs, a conflict broke out in the Kassai region.
So brothers from that region came all the way on foot with no shoes and only the clothes on their back.
When I saw how many they were and in what state it broke my heart.
But I prayed to Jehovah so Jehovah gave me courage and boldness to take the brothers in.
I decided to host three families in my house.
I had no foam mattresses for those 18 people.
All I could do was spread a piece of cloth on the cemented floor of the house for them to sleep on.
As the house has only one bedroom and a living room, I asked the brothers to sleep in the bedroom and the sisters with their children to sleep in the living room.
My love for Jehovah and for my fellow Christians motivated me to take the brothers in.
I received many blessings because the organisation Bethel sent food, flour, rice, oil and clothes.
I was selling charcoal, packing it in smaller bags to get some money to feed all of us.
Since Jehovah helped me in many ways, even with my small business and that we all lived together without any disputes, it was clear evidence of Jehovah support.
Everything that has happened has touched my heart so deeply.
I want to remain faithful to Jehovah God's organisation up to the end.
I've gotten many friends among the brothers and sisters who sought refuge in my house.
These friends helped me and tell me, keep your love intact to the end.
I look forward to seeing the brothers and sisters who sought refuge here, who came empty handed.
In the new world, in paradise, they will have a house, eat to their heart's desire without any problems.
One convention season and political appeal happened to coincide a ranging for accommodation for everyone could be challenging.
This happened in 2017.
The brothers near the convention site were already housing the brothers who have been displaced because of the fighting in the home region.
Still, arrangements were made to accommodate those coming for the convention.
For example, some brothers, they asked their non-witness neighbours to accommodate their guests, what they did with pleasure.
And the visiting brothers made sure to share the kingdom message with the hosts and with many positive results.
Very touching experiences, brother Longo. Thank you for your fine report.
Thank you very much.
Next, let's go to Asia.
We have with us brother Yasushi Wakabayashi, who serves on the Taiwan branch committee and also brother Maurice Raj, who serves on the Myanmar branch committee.
As you may know, Asia has recently been struck by several natural disasters.
We want to start by asking brother Wakabayashi, what kinds of natural disasters have the brothers and sisters experienced in Taiwan?
Well, we have experienced many typhoons and earthquakes.
For example, an earthquake in 1999 killed some 2,400 people.
Although large earthquakes have not been very common, we did have a magnitude 6.4 earthquake in 2016, an apartment building where a sister lived completely collapsed.
Thankfully, she was not home when the earthquake hit.
Another earthquake struck last year, but it was so encouraging to see how much our brothers and sisters in the midst of disaster value spiritual food.
My wife and I are currently working as translators at the Amiz Remote Translation Office in Hualien.
Amiz is an indigenous language spoken in the eastern part of Taiwan.
The earthquake struck around midnight of February 6th.
We heard very loud noises and people screaming outside.
For a nature fell over and all my belongings were on the floor.
Brother and sister Ruan ran into my room and gave me a pair of shoes to wear.
I was stepping on broken glass as we fled outside.
All we had were the clothes on our backs and a bag.
Losing everything was hard on us emotionally.
However, the most important thing was not to focus on what I had lost, but had a resumed supply of spiritual food to continue to translate spiritual food for the Amiz people.
We decided to move the translation office to a kingdom hall close by where it was safe.
The brothers and sisters all wanted the translation work to continue, so everyone cooperated to get things set up at the office.
One brother even asked me, do you need a car? We can lend you one so you can commute from your home to the office.
Before we could agree, he drove the car to where we were staying and gave us the keys.
Many brothers and sisters sent things without asking us.
They sent many clothes, meeting bags, ties, shoes from my wife, almost everything.
We had something new to wear every day.
This gave me a sense of urgency to resume our work as soon as possible.
They translate our publications and not to set things back.
We were able to resume our work at the RTO just about a week after the earthquake.
The congregation arranged to witness to the victims at the shelter the same weekend after the earthquake.
Some asked me, you are also a victim and yet you are comforting others.
Why? Because I believed when I comforted others, it brought me comfort too.
The love and zeal the brothers displayed in such difficult times deeply touched our hearts.
The brothers and sisters are always very quick to help when a natural disaster strikes.
For example, during a recent typhoon, a tree fell on a sister's house.
She later wrote to us about the events that followed.
She wrote,
As soon as you found out that my house was badly damaged by a tree,
yes, immediately arrangements were made not only to visit us but also to fix and rebuild.
It has been a great witness to all my unbelieving family members, relatives and neighbors.
A great example of unfailing love.
Still, while it is good not to presume upon the love of our brothers,
sometimes the brothers and sisters can be reluctant to ask for help.
For example, after a typhoon, an elder called the sister to ask if she was doing okay.
She said,
I'm fine, we can manage, but actually her roof had blown away, which to me would not really qualify as being okay.
So, congregation elders have encouraged our brothers and sisters not to be shy,
but to accept the help that they are offered by the organization as a reflection of Jehovah's love.
That's such a good point.
After all, we're living at the end of this system of things with all that it entails.
And Jehovah asks us to trust in him.
Thank you for that report, Brother Wakabayash.
You're welcome.
Next, let's speak with Brother Maurice Raj of the Myanmar Branch Committee.
Brother Raj, what scriptural principles have guided our brothers in Myanmar to show love during natural disasters?
Well, the example of the first century Christians has encouraged our brothers a lot.
All those who become believers after Pentecost 33 C showed everything they had.
In 2015, Myanmar was affected by a strong cyclone.
Many of our brothers were affected.
As once a day called Haka, a massive landslide destroyed everything it had sparked,
including the homes of our brothers.
Since Haka is so remote, it's dependent on deliveries by trucks.
However, the main road was destroyed.
The city was isolated, prices skyrocketed,
all of food supplies disabled in the market.
What a serious situation.
So what did the brothers take in the lead?
The local elders assembled all the publics at a kingdom all located in a safe place.
The elders asked everyone to bring all the food outside.
The rain was still pouring and people were searching desperately for food.
But inside the kingdom all, there was rice, oil, eggs, and vegetables.
No one kept food just for themselves.
Everyone shared until the first relief reached the city.
All of our brothers felt jojava scared.
And in the midst of this, the disaster relief committee made extra ordinary effort to reach the brothers.
During one of our circuit visits, it started to rain heavily.
According to the news on the radio, many of the roads in the area had collapsed
and there were reports of landslides in Haka, the next congregation on our circuit.
The distance from where I was to Haka was 65 miles.
Despite the dangerous conditions, my wife and I decided to walk to Haka.
I received a phone call from the branch.
They requested the disaster relief committee to go and assist the brothers in need in the disaster areas.
The committee prepared food and other supplies in a nearby city.
The road was very muddy, so the trip took a long time.
It took four days to reach Haka by foot.
When we arrived in Haka, we discovered that some of the brothers and sisters lost their homes.
So I met with the congregation elders and we arranged to make shepherding visits on these families.
It brought me joy to see that they were comforted through jojava's word.
Once we arrived in Haka, we arranged to distribute the food and other provisions that we had brought with us.
After that, we started a journey together to help other congregations.
It was a very difficult time for the brothers.
One brother said, because we were running low on food, our family was planning to eat just one meal per day.
But now, with the relief committee's help, we can eat all three meals.
The brothers were so happy and were really thankful to jojava and his organization for their loving support.
The trip was quite rough, but we felt that jojava supported us in wonderful ways.
In some places, the roads were very bad.
Sometimes, we had to cling to the edge of a cliff.
We had to climb up very steep mountains and then climb down steep mountains.
We even had to cross streams with strong currents.
I knew that I couldn't give up, so I kept saying to myself,
this is for God's kingdom, this is for God's kingdom, keep walking.
That helped me to continue on my journey.
To provide the congregations with the supplies, we walked 120 miles over four days.
God used us to show to His people that He never abandons them and that He really cares about them.
Knowing this brings such joy to our hearts.
It was such a wonderful privilege for me to be involved in this relief work with jojava in behalf of our brothers and sisters.
As a circuit to over say a brother, laugh-free mention,
it was meditating on how jojava acted as a loving shepherd through the disaster relief committee that moved him to complete history.
Our acts of love can likewise become answered to our fellow believers' prayers.
Well, thank you for sharing that excellent example of showing unfailing love for our brothers.
Thank you, brother Raj. Thank you, brother.
Next, we visit Europe.
Brother Jason Ali serves on the Albania Branch Committee and Brother Lars Kasom on the Scandinavia Branch Committee.
First, let's speak with brother Ali.
The Albania branch oversees the work in Kosovo where a preaching campaign was recently arranged.
Brother Ali, why was there a need for a preaching campaign in Kosovo?
The publisher to population ratio in Kosovo is the largest in all Europe, with one publisher to more than 8,700 inhabitants.
This means that quite a number of cities and villages are seldom preached in, and many others have never received a witness.
When this preaching campaign started, almost one million of Kosovo's population had never heard the truth.
While many people in this territory have a religious outlook and have heard of the Bible and about Jesus Christ, many often connect religion with some of the atrocities that were committed in recent political conflicts in the region.
Numerous families have been personally affected by the war of the 1990s in Kosovo, and in many cases they have lost loved ones in death.
So, it truly was an expression of love by the brothers and sisters who answered the call for help with this campaign.
When we heard about the campaign, we thought about how wonderful it would be, if at least 200 volunteers would come.
We were thrilled but also really nervous when we found out that over 600 volunteers were going to come.
As soon as we heard about the campaign being organized in Kosovo, we were very excited and really wanted to take part in it.
Our limiting income would mean we would have to calculate the cost carefully.
Also, because I lost my sight, the adjustment to a new environment preaching in villages obviously would not be easy for me.
I was offered a scholarship from a university in Tirana but my mind was made up and my goal was to take part in this campaign and to give my best to Jehovah.
Since I serve a better, I used my vacation days to come here for the campaign.
This campaign has been an answer to my prayers.
It was like Jehovah was saying, keep trying. You have brothers and sisters who are supporting you.
I have worked with brothers and sisters from all over the world on this campaign and the sacrifices they have made to come here have been a real source of encouragement to me.
I understood how much appreciation the volunteers were showing for the opportunity from Jehovah to support the campaign. I was deeply touched.
If I could use all the words in the world to describe the joy this campaign gave me, they wouldn't be enough.
Now I have seen with my own eyes my worldwide family and I feel in my heart the love and care that they have for us.
As you heard, the campaign had a profound effect on the local publishers but it also had an impact on the field.
For example, one day a group of local publishers from different countries were having lunch in a local restaurant.
They noticed that a group of policemen that were having lunch in the same restaurant were often looking over at them.
So two brothers decided to approach them and started a conversation with them.
One of the officers said that he had seen the publishers in the city and you all of them very well.
Then he added, you are doing a very fine work. If everyone did the same work as you, there would be no more need for a police force.
This campaign resulted not only in the formation of new groups and pre-groups in some areas but also motivated the local publishers.
It's amazing to see how initiatives like this campaign can be an expression of both brotherly and neighborly love.
Thank you brother Ali.
Next we turn to brother Lars Kassom in Scandinavia.
The Scandinavia branch office oversees among other places the work in Sweden.
How have recent world events shaped the preaching efforts in Sweden?
In Sweden, meeting refugees in the ministry has been common for many years and we have had foreign language congregations for decades.
However, in 2015 over 160,000 refugees arrived in Sweden.
So over a period of two years the service department approved forming 45 new foreign language groups and pre-groups in Sweden.
So today we have over 90 plus a number of foreign language congregations.
Even in small congregations, the brothers have worked very hard to invite refugees to the meetings.
This has often resulted in kingdom halls packed to capacity.
Thousands of refugees come to Sweden every year.
Some of these are sent into different refugee camps around young shipping.
I came from Burundi as a refugee because of the war.
I came to Sweden when I was 17. I came alone.
When you come as a refugee, you are a stranger.
You miss your family. You miss your friends. You miss everything.
They need hope. They need the truth.
And Jehovah has given us the privilege to give this to them.
Many of these camps were in isolated areas.
Sometimes when you visited them there could be three or four different nationalities in the same room.
Some of the friends also learned a few different greetings.
Before setting off, we downloaded videos in up to 30 languages.
Sometimes we connected interested ones with brothers who spoke their language through video calls.
When we did not receive permissions to preach at the camp, we had to find other methods.
We tried to invite people to a meeting in Swahili and more than 50 people came.
We had to borrow several child seats and ask many of the friends to help.
I feel that Jehovah has helped me to become more open-minded, much more patient and empathetic.
They were long days and sometimes you were tired in the evening.
But when you looked out and saw your brothers and sisters making the same sacrifice,
that motivated you to continue.
When you saw the way they accepted the truth, how it formed and transformed them, it was worth all the effort.
Although many of us from Sweden are known as somewhat reserved,
but when we meet a person who has lost everything, everything, even his family and friends,
it really touches our heart.
Today, our territory reminds us of Jesus' words at John 435.
Lift up your eyes and view the fields that they are white for harvesting.
While Sweden is one of the most secular lands in the world,
with the influx of refugees, we now have territories filled with God-fearing people.
These people are very often disappointed in their religion.
So we are now happy to help them by offering them a solid hope for the future
and give them a meeting in life.
Of course, it takes an effort to study the Bible with someone in another language.
But to be used by Jehovah in this special way brings us even closer to Him.
So we are very grateful to Jehovah for this opportunity we have now
to help refugees in Sweden.
We appreciate the brothers and sisters in Sweden for setting a good example of neighborly love.
Thank you for that report, Brother Cassalm.
We've now come to North America, and we'll be talking with Brother Anthony Griffin,
who serves on the United States Branch Committee.
And we'll continue focusing on neighborly love.
Brother Griffin, you mentioned to me earlier that you've seen a pattern.
A pattern of what it takes to show personal interest.
Can you tell us a bit more about that?
Absolutely.
When you talk to brothers and sisters who have progressive Bible studies
and who have successfully aided new ones to serve Jehovah,
what you'll notice is patterns begin to emerge.
One of the patterns is that they prepare before they go out into the service.
How does that help?
When you're prepared, you're more relaxed, and thus you're more friendly
when you present the good news at the door.
Another pattern is that effective Bible teachers, they think,
they pray, and they act on the personal needs and concerns of Bible students.
Whether those needs are physical or emotional or spiritual.
It's kind of what Remind you of what Paul said in 1 Corinthians 9 and verse 22.
He said that he became all things to people of all sorts
that he might by all possible means save some.
So this means that inside every successful Bible teacher
is a heart that is filled with love for people.
And it's this love, this outstretching love
that has motivated some to learn a new language,
some have moved to a foreign language congregation
in order to help and assist more to learn about Jehovah.
As an example of this, I'd like to introduce you to sister Sally Giltainen.
Sister Giltainen did not allow anything
to stop her from showing neighborly love.
Just prior to my baptism, unfortunately, I became critically ill.
I was eventually told I had two hours to live.
The doctors insisted that I have a blood transfusion,
and I took my stand.
There was no question that I was willing to die for Jehovah.
But the question to me was, was I willing to live for him?
And I became all the more determined to use my life to serve Jehovah.
So obviously I lived.
It motivated me to really be focused on the ministry.
I began regular pioneering when I was 17.
It's been a privilege to study with people
who were Baptist and Catholics and Methodist Episcopalians,
some were atheists, some were rich, some were poor.
There were five parents that came with their children,
and there were 13 children.
I was in such a supportive congregation,
and there were so many young pioneers who had the energy.
Those couples were so important to me.
When my husband and I got married,
we were in a rural congregation in Virginia.
Eventually we wound up in the Spanish territory,
so many migrant workers that I just wanted to be able to talk to them.
It was a challenge because I didn't speak Spanish.
Never let that stop me.
I learned enough to get my foot in the door.
While I didn't speak Spanish, I spoke the language of love.
Jehovah's love, and that's what they were relating to.
And I would work so hard to prepare for Bible studies.
The goal was not just to teach doctrinal truth,
but to teach them to know Jehovah.
I would take some Bible students to visit other Bible students,
so they could encourage one another.
Eventually the brothers determined that they could hold a meeting.
We thought 20 or 25 would come.
82 people came to the first Spanish meeting.
It was such a joyful day to watch them associate with each other.
It was a family, and it continues to be to this day.
For 35 years, David and I have driven separately to the meetings.
We generally take two different cars to pick people up.
I usually have a car full of people that I'm bringing.
He will often have people he's picking up.
If I'm going to teach people to know Jehovah and to love him,
it began with me.
So if my heart is filled with love for Jehovah and for people,
hopefully they would show.
Obviously you try really hard to teach the truth.
I think that if anything, it's been the language of love.
I've wanted so much for them to feel that love that Jehovah showed me.
So showing personal interest by applying Bible principles,
it really does work.
And this can be demonstrated in many different ways.
For example, in Los Angeles, California,
there was a brother who was in a coffee shop.
And he noticed a man who was reading a newspaper.
So he approached the man.
And he simply asked him,
is there any good news in there today?
So that led to a conversation.
And the man brought up something that was concerned him.
He was concerned about his young daughter.
So the brother asked him,
can I show you something on the website that might assist you
in helping your daughter?
So he showed him one of the Caleb and Sophia videos.
Then after further discussion,
the man wanted to know where the kingdom hall was.
So the brother took him right back to the website,
showed him the address of the local kingdom hall.
What was the result of all of this?
That man who was reading the newspaper at the coffee shop,
he's now one of our brothers.
And his daughter, she's making wonderful progress in the truth.
Well, thank you, brother Griffin,
for sharing those beautiful experiences
about showing personal interest.
Let's not talk for a moment about how our brothers faithfully care
for our places of worship,
which essentially is an aspect of showing love for Jehovah
and our fellow brothers and sisters.
This takes us to Oceania,
where we have brother Kagowali Biyama joining us
from the Papua New Guinea Branch Committee,
and brother Abraham Lincoln,
who serves on the Micronesia Branch Committee.
We turned first to brother Biyama.
What need for places of worship currently exists in Papua New Guinea?
Currently, we need to construct 22 new kingdom halls
and renovate 26 existing halls.
Because of the increase in interest shown in the field,
most of our big congregations in our main towns
have had to split.
Attendances at those congregation weekend meetings
is generally double the seating capacity
of their existing kingdom hall.
So when the new kingdom hall is built,
the brothers and sisters do all they can
to support the LDC brothers
who have come from afar to assist that belief.
Accomplish the construction work here in PNG.
There are many challenges.
Sometimes there is no road,
so the brothers and sisters have to carry all the materials
to the site to build a kingdom hall.
Sometimes it's hard to travel to other areas for work,
because we live behind our family and our friends.
When we work on a kingdom hall,
everyone in the congregation helps us.
They cook for us and support the work on the site.
In one congregation,
they give everything they have to support the work.
They work up early in the morning,
work down the mountains,
bringing food with them.
It takes them three or four hours
to come into the construction site,
and they cook food.
After the construction team meets,
they clean up and they walk back.
It takes them three to four hours again.
So around nine, then they arrive home.
Sometimes it's hard for them,
because they have their own family to support.
It's a huge sacrifice that they've given to come and support this work.
At the same time, we get encouragement at the meetings
and when we are out witnessing
some given encouragement to help us doing this work.
We go out on the weekends to swim and play.
In that way, we meet a lot of brothers and sisters
and they become as family to us.
When brothers and sisters gave everything to support us in the work,
this encourages me to give my best to do this work.
Construction is hard work,
and there are many challenges.
But you receive many wonderful blessings.
You will learn to trust in Jehovah.
And also, you will be happy doing this work.
It's fascinating to see how the outgoing of love for Jehovah
can be manifested in not only practical ways,
such as by cooking food for our brothers,
but also how it can motivate the brothers
as a sign to the construction project.
Yes, and the love we see is not limited
to the construction of the building,
but it extends to the upkeep of the hall as well.
Many passes by have stood in front of the Kingdom Hall property
to take pictures because of its well kept look.
That really shows how our love can be a great shot of praise to Jehovah.
Thank you, Brother Biyama, for that good report.
And while some places have a huge need for Kingdom halls,
others require similar effort because of the remoteness of the location.
Brother Lincoln, the island of Tonawas is part of your branch territory.
How did your brothers there show how much they treasure their places of worship?
The brothers take serious their responsibility to maintain their Kingdom Hall
as was visible in a recent renovation project.
With the assistance of local and international servants,
this small congregation of 31 publishers were able to complete the project
in only 11 weeks.
Our island, Tonawas, is very beautiful,
but many people have no jobs.
Previously, the Kingdom Hall was very small.
Even though we endeavoured to clean inside and out,
there were many things that were in bad condition,
because there was no money, not enough.
There was no longer suitable for a sizable group to worship Jehovah there.
We were very happy when we heard that Jehovah's organization
would help us with the Kingdom Hall in Tonawas.
We are grateful for the way Jehovah's Love was clearly manifest,
and for the love of our brothers from distant lands.
There were difficulties that we experienced when the materials arrived in Chuk from Guam.
We received the materials, using a flatbed truck to take them to a barge
to be transported from the capital Alain Reno to Tonawas.
Upon reaching Tonawas, it was very difficult to unload,
because there is no dock.
We used a motorboat to carry the materials from the barge
to the drop off point, so it could reach the job site.
On our island, people do not view construction as being women's work,
but with the help of the brothers who came from distant lands,
they really helped the sisters to understand how to use the tools.
Many villagers were kind of mocked them.
Look at those Jehovah's Witnesses going to work.
It's not supposed to be women's work,
but our sisters ignored it, because of their deep love for Jehovah.
They walked, singing your songs, or they would not hear others mocking them.
Today, we are very thankful to our God, Jehovah,
and to our brothers around the world.
Because of their love and hard work on behalf of their new kingdom hall,
it really is a beautiful building for Jehovah,
and for people in Tonawas to see what love Jehovah's people have among them.
As Hebrews chapter 6 verse 10 plainly tells us about Jehovah's promise,
he will not forget the love and hard work his people performed on our behalf.
Though we can see how deep the Pacific Ocean is that separates us,
because of Jehovah's love for us, it feels as if we are very close together as a family.
It took the action and efforts of many involved to complete this renovation project.
Through this action, the brothers and sisters showed how much they value the kingdom halls,
as places where we can go and give thanks to Jehovah in the great congregation,
stated in Psalm 35 verse 18.
A lot of love goes into building each kingdom hall, and you highlighted that well.
Brother Lincoln, thank you very much.
Thank you.
We have one more continent to visit, and that's South America.
There we have Brother Douglas Little, who serves on the Bolivia branch committee,
and we also have Brother Siraldo Malsmit, who's on the Brazil branch committee.
The friends in South America said a great example of reaching out to the many indigenous peoples,
so we'll be focusing on that for the next few minutes.
Brother Little, what does the branch in Bolivia do to reach remote populations with the good news?
Well, Brother Curzon, Bolivia has dozens of indigenous languages spread throughout the country.
Some of these languages have over a million speakers and others only a few hundred speakers.
So in Acts chapter 1 verse 8 speaks about witnessing to the most distant part of the earth,
we feel that we need to do our part.
One way that we reach out to these populations is through campaigns.
Once we have established that an area or language has potential for growth,
we look at how we can give that field more permanent support.
For example, we encourage pioneers to take up the challenge of learning an indigenous language,
and when pioneers from other countries express their interest in serving in Bolivia,
we include a recommendation of an indigenous language group they could consider serving in.
And to give you an idea of what it's like, we would like you to meet these two sisters who came here to serve.
My parents were in the International Construction Work before we were born,
and we didn't know it as we were growing up,
but they were planning on someday moving to another country to pioneer.
My name is Jessica.
My name is Mariah.
We're from the United States, and we're serving in Benny Bolivia.
How do our doubts at first about moving to another country?
When you're pioneering in this area, you're in the sun a lot.
You're either walking or riding a motorcycle or sometimes a bicycle out in service.
Also adapting to a new culture, a new culture, new ways of eating that are different than what we're used to.
But once we got here and we started going out in service, we met the brothers and sisters,
we fell in love with Bolivia.
Once we were preaching by boat and we arrived to one indigenous community,
and a man on a motorcycle came and he started picking everybody up and collecting them.
And we were worried at first. We thought that he didn't want them to listen to us,
and so he was taking them all away.
But it turns out in the end that he was the son of the chief in there in that community,
and he was gathering everyone together so that they could all listen to us.
It's something that you would never get to really do back home.
Moving here has helped us to see how Jehovah's Hand has been more directly in our life.
We've gotten to be part of activities that maybe we've heard about in a year-book
or maybe we hear about on the broadcasting.
But getting to live those activities makes us feel very happy and closer to the organization as well.
We get to see how Jehovah is moving the organization in the last days
to reach as many people as possible.
That really drove us a lot closer to him because we were forced to trust more in him than in ourselves.
So put the car in motion and Jehovah will bless you.
Jehovah has richly blessed all these efforts of our brothers and sisters
to reach out to the indigenous populations.
To give you another example, in 2016, a caravan of 11 four-wheel-drive vehicles
with 62 brothers and sisters went to the remote Isoso region
where the people speak Bolivian Guarani.
They were able to bring with them the recently translated Teach Us book.
And as the brothers and sisters went door to door in each small village,
the villagers would walk by and tell them not to forget to visit their houses too.
Some were so excited to receive the brothers that they did want to risk not being home when they came back.
So they brought their chair to their neighbor's house where the brothers and sisters were already visiting
and sat down to participate in the discussion.
Thank you, brother little, for sharing that with us.
And we wish Jehovah's continued blessing on the preaching work in Bolivia.
We'll now travel to Brazil to speak with Brother Malesmith.
As in Bolivia, the branch in Brazil has made concerted efforts to cover remote territories.
Can you tell us a bit about that, Brother Malesmith?
Of course, Brother Cursum.
In Brazil, about 50 million people living isolated areas
that is more than many countries in entire populations.
So in September 2018, we began a preaching campaign in more than 2000 isolated areas in Brazil
where the congregations have a hard time covering their territories.
So far, more than 40,000 publishers have volunteered to support this campaign.
Along with these efforts, we have assigned in numerous graduates of the school for Kindle Evangelizers
to remote parties off the branch of the territory.
Brother and the sisters on the radio won such a couple.
When we graduated from the School for Kingdom Evangelizers, to have surprise,
we were assigned to the Sacade Maui field.
This is an indigenous language spoken in the Amazon rainforest.
It was a challenge for us because the assignment was about 4,000 kilometers away from our home and our friends.
My name is Alex, and this is my wife Rosanne.
We've been serving in this language for about a year and a half.
We wanted to put into practice right away everything we had learned.
But how could we do that if we didn't know the language?
All we heard was blah, blah, blah. I couldn't understand anything.
We know a sister who's a native speaker, so we asked her for a lot of help.
We wanted to be able to know enough to at least be able to preach and understand a little bit of the language.
We noticed that the Sacade people would come into the city and then go home on a crowded boat.
So we and some other sisters decided to go with them.
We were a little nervous, but we didn't know where we were going to spend the night,
or even if the people would allow us to stay in the village.
But they were very loving and received us well, some even offered for us to stay in their houses.
Since we didn't know the language very well, we decided to learn just one presentation to teach them Jehovah's name.
We showed God's name at every door, some of them were really surprised.
They had a Bible, they had God's name right there in their Bible, but they didn't know that Jehovah is God.
It was exciting for us to see them learning Jehovah's name for the first time.
Who would want to learn a language spoken in the rainforest by only 10,000 people?
But we know that Jehovah loves all sorts of people.
He wants even people who live in isolated places like the rainforest to know him.
I've fallen in love with the people, the assignment and the language.
It's a beautiful language.
Even with all the sacrifices we've made materially, we've never lacked anything.
And I think that going through the experience of living here has strengthened our confidence in Jehovah.
It's helped us not to rely on our own strength.
We've really seen how well Jehovah takes care of us.
Others who have been assigned it to remote territories have expressed the similar sentiments.
And it is so rewarding.
On one occasion, a couple went to a very isolated indigenous region to distribute a new brochure in the Tikkun language.
When they arrived, they began to preach.
An indigenous couple began to cry.
And they embraced the brothers.
The pioneers were a little worried.
The couple explained that the previous day, they had the priest to God beg for him to let them know him.
They couldn't believe it.
When the next day, the pioneers showed up explaining the Bible.
Talking about the God, the end of offering publications in their own language.
The pioneers feel that Jehovah is listening and caring for these rumble and sincere people, even in the most remote places.
That's such a good point.
The love we show is ultimately an extension of Jehovah's love for those with a spiritual need.
Thank you for your report, Brother MailSmith.
And that concludes our travels to visit our brothers and sisters around the globe.
Do you remember the different examples of brotherly and neighborly love we've seen in the past hour?
We saw how our brothers and sisters in Africa show love by helping each other to cope with difficult economic circumstances.
When we visited Asia, we saw the love shown during times of natural disasters.
In Europe, preaching campaigns were used to share the good news.
We saw examples from North America of how personal interest can reach a humble person's heart.
And a lot of love and effort was put into supporting construction, renovation, and upkeep of places of worship in Oceania.
And finally in South America, we joined our brothers and sisters as they went out of their comfort zone to preach, to indigenous, and remote populations.
In the first talk of this convention, the chairman promised that this symposium would make you feel proud to be part of our international brotherhood.
We're confident these examples had that effect.
Still, each one of us needs to ask himself.
Am I doing my part?
Do I show unfailing love toward my brothers and my neighbors?
This is what Jehovah requires of us.
Although our circumstances may differ, when we do our utmost to display love in daily life, we prove that we are taught by Jehovah, our father, whose love never fails.